Emailed input from George

git config -global user.name “name”

global user.email “myemail.com”

  Will set git to use credentials and email for git account.

git init 
  Initializes a git repository

git clone 
  copies a remote git repository and adds the location as a remote so it can be fetched from or pushed to a repository you have credentials to access.

git add 
  adds file changes in working directory to index

git rm 
  removes files from index and working directory so they will not be tracked

git commit 
  takes all changes written in the index and creates a new commit object pointing to it and sets branch to point to the new commit. e.g. git commit -a commits added changes, git commit -a -m commits all changes and is equal to git add and git commit.

git status 
  shows status of files in index vs. the working directory.

git branch 
  lists existing branches, including remote branches if -a is provided.

git checkout 
  checks out a different branch…switches branch by updating the index, working index and HEAD to reflect eh chosen branch.

git merge 
  merges one or more branches into your current branch and creates a new commit if there are no conflicts. e.g. git merge newbranchversion

git reset 
  resets your index and working directory to the state of the last commit. e.g. git reset –hard HEAD

git stash 
  temporarily saves changes you don’t want to commit immediately

git tag 
  tags a specific commit with a simple human readable tag that doesn’t move. e.g. git tag -a v1.0 -m ‘this is version 1.0 tag’

git fetch 
  fetches all the objects from remote repository that are not present locally.

git pull 
  fetches files from the remote repository and merges them with the local repository. This command is equal to the git fetch and git merge sequence.

git push 
  pushes all the modified local objects to the remote repository and advances its branches.

git remote 
  shows all the remote versions of your repository

git log 
  shows a listing of commits on a branch including the corresponding details

git show 
  shows information about a git object

git ls-tree 
  shows a tree, including the mode and the name of each item and the SHA-1 value of the blob or tree that it points to.

git cat-file 
  used to view the type of an object through the SHA-1 value

git prep 
  lets you search through your tree of content for words and phrases

git diff 
  generates patch files or statistics of differences between paths or files in your git repository.

gitk 
  graphical Tcl/Tk based interface to a local Git repository

git instaweb 
  runs a web server with an interface into your local repository and automatically directs a web browser to it

git archive 
  creates a .tar or .zip file including the contents of a single tree from your repository

git gc 
  garbage collector for your repository. Optimizes repository and should be run occasionally.

git fsck 
  does an integrity check of the Git file system, identifying corrupted objects

git prune 
  removes objects that are no longer pointed to by any object in any reachable branch
  
  
  
  
